***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer: data structures helps us with organizing, managing, and storing data efficiently.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer:insertion, deletion, searching, sorting

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer: when you do not know the size of data.

What is an Array?
Answer:
An array is a data structure that contains a group of elements. Typically these elements are all of the same data type,
such as an integer or string

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer:array members are accessed using [], while ArrayList has a set of methods to access elements and modify them.
 Array is a fixed size data structure while ArrayList is not.

What is a LinkedList?
Answer:
Linked lists are linear data structures that hold data in individual objects called nodes. These nodes hold both the
data and a reference to the next node in the list.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. A linked list is a collection of objects known as a
 node where node consists of two parts, i.e., data and address. Array elements store in a contiguous memory location.

What is a Queue?
Answer: queue is a line first come first out.

What is a Stack (not Java memory - refers to data structure)?
Answer: stack is a pile of data and the way it works is last in first out.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: first in first out, last in first out.

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer: we use for talking about how long an algorithm takes to run or how much memory is used by algorithm,

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer:  linear search is the best because it has to parse through data and allighn it.

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: the worst case when o(n^2) because you are comparing all the elements with each other.

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer:A tree is a hierarchical data structure defined as a collection of nodes. Nodes represent value and nodes are
connected by edges. ... The tree originates from this, and hence it does not have any parent. Each node has one parent
only but can have multiple children.

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer:A Graph in the data structure can be termed as a data structure consisting of data that is stored among many
groups of edges(paths) and vertices (nodes), which are interconnected

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model
Answer:RDBMS: Arrays, network data model: Graph, Hierarchical data model: Trees

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:HashMap internally stores mapping in the form of Map. Entry object which contains both key and value object.
When you want to retrieve the object, you call the get() method and again pass the key object.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer:The ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException occurs whenever we are trying to access any item of an array at an index
which is not present in the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:Manually.
       Arrays.copyOf()
       System.arraycopy()
       Object.clone()

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:BFS(Breadth First Search) uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path. DFS(Depth First Search) uses
Stack data structure

What is Recursion?
Answer:Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every elements are
attached to its previous and next adjacent. In a non-linear data structure, data elements are attached in hierarchically
 manner


Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a) In terms of Accessing elements:
  b) In terms of Inserting elements:
  c) In terms of Searching elements:
  d) In terms of Removing elements: